.nr N -1
.nr D 5
.TH W3M 1 Local
.UC 4
.SH NAME
w3s \- a text based Web browser and pager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B w3s
[options] [URL or filename]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" This defines appropriate quote strings for nroff and troff
.ds lq \&"
.ds rq \&"
.if t .ds lq ``
.if t .ds rq ''
.\" Just in case these number registers aren't set yet...
.if \nN==0 .nr N 10
.if \nD==0 .nr D 5
.I
w3s
is a World Wide Web (WWW) text based client based on w3m.
It will display hypertext markup language (HTML) documents
containing links to files residing on the local system, as
well as files residing on remote systems. It can display HTML
tables and frames.  In addition, it can be used as a "pager"
in much the same manner as "more" or "less".
.SH OPTIONS
At start up, \fIw3s\fR will load any local
file or remote URL specified at the command
line.  For help with runtime options, press \fB"H"\fR
while running \fIw3s\fR.
Command line options are:
.TP
.B -t tab
set tab width
.TP
.B -r
ignore backspace effect
.TP
.B -l line
# of preserved line (default 10000)
.TP
.B -I charset
document charset
.TP
.B -O charset
display/output charset
.TP
.B -B
load bookmark
.TP
.B -bookmark file
specify bookmark file
.TP
.B -T type
specify content-type
.TP
.B -m
internet message mode
.TP
.B -v
visual startup mode
.TP
.B -M
monochrome display
.TP
.B -N
open URL of command line on each new tab
.TP
.B -F
automatically render frame
.TP
.B -dump
dump formatted page into stdout
.TP
.B -cols width
specify column width (used with -dump)
.TP
.B -ppc count
specify the number of pixels per character (4.0...32.0).
Larger values will make tables narrower.  [default 8.0]
.TP
.B -ppl count
specify the number of pixels per line (4.0...64.0)
.TP
.B -dump_source
dump page source into stdout
.TP
.B -dump_head
dump response of HEAD request into stdout
.TP
.B -dump_both
dump HEAD and source into stdout
.TP
.B -dump_extra
dump HEAD, source, and extra information into stdout
.TP
.B -post file
use POST method with file content
.TP
.B -header string
insert string as a header
.TP
.B +<num>
goto <num> line
.TP
.B -num
show line number
.TP
.B -no-proxy
don't use proxy
.TP
.B -4
IPv4 only (-o dns_order=4)
.TP
.B -6
IPv6 only (-o dns_order=6)
.TP
.B -no-mouse
don't use mouse
.TP
.B -cookie
use cookie.
.TP
.B -no-cookie
don't use cookie
.TP
.B -graph
use graphic character
.TP
.B -no-graph
don't use graphic character
.TP
.B -S
squeeze multiple blank lines
.TP
.B -W
toggle wrap search mode
.TP
.B -X
don't use termcap init/deinit
.TP
.B -title [=TERM]
set buffer name to terminal title string.
If TERM is specified, use the TERM style title configuration.
.TP
.B -o opt=value
assign value to config option
.TP
.B -show-option
show all available config option
.TP
.B -config file
specify config file
.TP
.B -help
show usage
.TP
.B -version
show w3s version
.TP
.B -reqlog
write request logfile
.TP
.B -debug
DO NOT USE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
To use w3s as a pager:
.br
$ ls | w3s
.br
.TP
To use w3s to translate HTML files:
.br
$ cat foo.html | w3s -T text/html
.TP
or
.br
$ cat foo.html | w3s -dump -T text/html >foo.txt
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3s/config
configuration file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3s/keymap
key binding configuration file
.\" .TP
.\" .I ${HOME}/.w3s/menu
.\" ???
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3s/mouse
mouse configuration file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3s/cookie
cookie file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3s/history
history file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3s/passwd
passowrd and username file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3s/pre_form
form parameters file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3s/mailcap
external viewer configuration file
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.w3s/mime.types
MIME types file
.\" .TP
.\" .I ${HOME}/.w3s/urimethodmap
.\" ???
.PP
Please see the MANUAL.html file distributed with w3s for
more detailed documentation.

.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.I
w3m
incorporated code from several sources.
Hans J. Boehm, Alan J. Demers, Xerox Corp. and Silicon Graphics
have the copyright of the GC library comes with w3s package.
Users have contributed patches and suggestions over time.
.SH AUTHOR
Akinori ITO <aito@fw.ipsj.or.jp>
